---
layout: post
title:  "Differential Evolution"
date:   2023-02-19 10:59:22 +0800
categories: algorithm
---
Differential Evolution (DE) [ref.] is a global optimization algorithm over continuous space which can be used for quantum control [ref.]. It consists of three steps in each iteration, mutation, crossover and selection.

First, we create a population for the parameters we want to optimize. An individual in the population is a D-dimensional vector (X_i), i=1,2,3,…,N_"P" , where D is the number of parameters and N_"P"  is the population size. For each iteration, four different individuals X_i,X_s1,X_s2,X_s3 will be sampled randomly from the population.

{% highlight python %}
def createPopulation(param_min, param_max, D, Np):
  # param_min and param_max are the lower and upper limit of your parameters
  population = np.reshape( np.random.uniform(param_min, param_max, D*Np), (Np, D) )
  return population
{% endhighlight %}

# Mutation
The mutant vector V_i is obtained by
V_i=X_s1+μ(X_s2-X_s3 )
with μ∈[0,2] the mutation factor which controls the differential variation X_s2-X_s3.

# Crossover
To increase the diversity of the perturbed parameter vectors, the trail vector U_i is obtained by
U_i={█(V_i@X_i )┤    (if c(0,1)<ξ,)¦(otherwise,        )
with c(0,1) the uniform random number between 0 and 1 which is sampled in every iteration, and ξ∈(0,1) the crossover rate.

# Selection
The member of the next generation X_i^' is chosen by
X_i^'={█(U_i  @X_i )┤    (if f(U_i )<f(X_i),)¦(otherwise,            )
where f is the cost function of the optimization problem. For example, if we are trying to optimize a trading strategy, f could be the risk-reward ratio, win rate, etc.



Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
